Lesson 4
=========

Goal: Use the serial console to read a message from the Arduino. Send the value
of a digital input over the Serial console.

The students should understand how to log messages to the console to help debug
their programs.

Goal: Add a potentiometer and send the value over the serial console.

Goal: [Build a force
sensor](http://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-Make-a-Ridiculously-Cheap-Analog-Pressure-S/)
and send its value over the serial console.

Goal: Enable the LED once a force sensor or potentiometer passes a certain
threshold.

The students should understand how an analog input differs from a digital input,
and the versatility of an analog input (can use multiple types of sensors). They
should understand why the range of an analog input is 0 - 255.

Goal: Control the brightness of an LED or the color of an RGB LED based on an
analog input (use the map() function).

They should understand how to map from inputs to outputs in code using variables
(log messages will require storing the input values before writing out).

Goal: Use the force sensor to control brightness and the potentiometer to
control the color.

## Supplies

* Breadboard from last time, which should have
    * RGB LED
    * 4x 220 ohm resistor
    * push button
    * 7 jumper wires
* 1cm square block of static dissipative foam
* 2 more jumper wires
* Potentiometer

## Schedule (for 2 hour session)

1. Setup (10 minutes) - Get laptop and other supplies, download code from
   previous session.
1. Programming Challenge (30 minutes)
    1. Write a code that blinks your RGB LED through a sequence 5 different
       colors (15 minutes)
    1. Use a function to make your code much nicer to use and modify (15
       minutes)
1. Serial console with digital inputs (15 minutes)
1. Analog input, test with variable resistor
1. Break (10 minutes)
1. Build and test an analog force sensor (20 minutes)
1. Use your force sensor to control your LED - rest of class
1. Clean-up - last 10 min

## Resources

* [Foam force sensor](http://www.instructables.com/id/How-to-Make-a-Ridiculously-Cheap-Analog-Pressure-S/)
